In this demo, I will show you
how to create a chart repository using AWS S3.
In the previous lecture, I didn't install
using our charts but our chart was locally available,
it was on Git and we had to check out
the Git repository to then install a chart.
Now, I will put a chart in a repository
so that you can just use Hub Install
and then package name rather than having
to use the directory.
To be able to do this demo, you need an
AWS account and you will need to create an S3 bucket.
I'm here again in my Kubernetes course in the helm
directory and here I have a read me.
In this read me, it also explains how to set up
a helm repository.
Let's have a look at this file.
Set up S3 helm repo.sh.
This is a simple bash script that will
set up the repository for us.
First, we are gonna create a random string.
Thus, every S3 bucket needs to be unique
so it's easier to just append a random part
to your S3 bucket name so that you are sure
it's unique.
It is important to set the AWS region and if you
don't set, you can change the default here.
So my default region is E-U West one
because I don't really have an AWS region set.
Then we're going to create the S3 bucket
and for that, we're going to use the AWS tool,
the AWS command utility.
So you will have to install this tool
if you haven't already.
In one of the first lectures, where I explained
about coops, I explained how to install it.
In the same lecture, I also explained how
to set up the credentials to create an admin
user in AWS and to use those credentials.
Those need to be configured before you can
execute this command.
I will not explain this again now.
But if you haven't done so, please go to
one of the first lectures to set up AWS first.
If the bucket is in US east one,
you can just do AWS S3 api.
Create bucket.
If it's not, then you have to parse the region
and the create bucket configuration.
Once we have our S3 bucket, we can install S3 helm again.
Helm plugin install from this GitHub repository.
You can then initialize the S3 bucket
so we're going to create a directory of charts.
In this directory of charts, you will have
our charts uploaded.
Then we can add the repository to helm.
So helm repo add my charts, helm random string /charts.
From that point, we can upload the charts
to our S3 repository.
So make sure that your AWS credentials
are set up correctly.
To test, you can do AWS sts get caller identity
for example to get your user name, your user ID
and your account ID.
If you get output and not an error then your AWS
access is working.
Then you can do setup S3 helm repo.sh.
So this script set up our helm repository,
our helm uses a random string.
Download and installed the helm S3 plugin.
The S3 plugin, it initializes an empty repository
in this chart directory.
In the S3 bucket add a my charts to my repository.
If you do helm repo list, we now have
my charts in our repository list.
So now we can add our demo chart to this list.
Let's have a look at our read me again.
First, we need to make sure we export our AWS region.
If you don't have it set in AWS.
Let's do to make sure.
Export AWS region EU west one and then we have
up here our demo chart.
Once we have our demo chart that we installed earlier,
now we want package just one.
So we do helm chart package, successfully packaged
the chart and save it to demo chart 0.0.1.
Now we can push it, helm S3 push.
My chart repository.
So let's do that.
And now the demo chart is pushed to our repository
so we could do helm search demo chart.
Then we get our local version and the one
that we pushed to our repository.
Now anyone who has this repository can use
our chart so they don't need this directory anymore.
They can just use this repository and then do
helm install the name of repository, my charts,
and then demo chart, the name of our chart.
This will then install again the demo charts
but this time using the repository.
I will just delete the chart again.
Helm delete and then the name of the deployment.
And the chart is going to be deleted again.
So the next obvious step, once you've created
the repository is to then use a CI or a CD
like continuous integration or continuous deployment
tool to build this package and then push this package
to this repository so that you don't have to do this
locally anymore.
So that's it for this demo.
The next demo, I will then show you how to integrate it
within Jenkins, a continuous integration platform.